Welcome back.
In this video we're going to be introducing a new syntax for writing functions in 2015 called Aero functions.
Functions are a more concise alternative to using the word function and can save us quite a few keystrokes.
But there are some gotchas when using aero functions.
Let's start by writing a function expression called ADD which returns the sum of two parameters A and
B using the function keyword.
Refactoring this code to use an arrow function is quite simple.
We simply remove the word function and after our parameters we add an equal sign and a greater than
sign which make an arrow.
And it should work the same.
So what's so special about aero functions.
If we place our entire function on a one line we do not need to use the return keyword.
And curly braces if we do use the return keyword javascript will actually throw a syntax error.
Let's see what our previous add function looks like when it's refactored.
On the one line that's pretty nice.
This one line option makes aero functions very useful when writing short code especially with higher
order functions.
Let's imagine we want to iterate over an array of numbers and return a new array with each value doubled.
Math is an excellent option So let's first see what that will look like before 2015.
Here we are writing a function on a couple of lines and that's fine but with aero functions we can make
things much shorter.
Let's see what that looks like.
This can look a bit strange at first but let's see another example where aero functions really clean
up our code.
Let's imagine we want to write a function called Double unfilter which doubles an array and then only
returns the values that are divisible by 3.
Combining map filter would be a great way to solve this.
And here's what that might look like before.
Yes 2015 is quite a bit of code.
So let's see how Herro functions can help us.
Now this may look intimidating but take the time to go through each step.
Our double unfilter function accepts an array and returns the result of mapping over each value and
doubling the value and then filtering each number that is divisible by 3.
Notice here that when you only have a single parameter in an arrow function it does not need to be wrapped
in parentheses in the next video we'll dive deeper into Herro functions and see just when and where
they should be use zylon.